hey everybody so today I thought I would
do a little Q&A sash are there some
questions you guys sent me thank you so
much for sending in questions I was so
worried that like no one would send in
any questions for QA and it'd be
extremely awkward but it's fine because
you sent in questions and I'm here to
answer them so this is a great setup for
Ally isn't it wonderful yeah let's get
into it so the first question I've
gotten like written down here so I'm
like looking down that that's why first
question Alice King asks when did you
decide you wanted to go to Cambridge so
when I started secondary school I wasn't
sure if I wanted to go to uni or not I
don't really one my mum went to uni and
my dad didn't so I kind of thought it
was a 50/50 whether you want or not and
we understand how important it was and
then me maybe in year 10 they had they
had someone come in who had been to my
secondary school and then was at
Cambridge at the time and they kind of
gave a little talk on what it's like at
Cambridge and I thought oh that sounds
quite fun but I kind of thought it was
like an impossible thing like Oxford and
Cambridge like I've always aimed high
but I didn't think I didn't really
understand how I could get there really
and then so it wasn't really until like
first year of sixth form when they had
like a whole they had an Oxbridge talk
with the staff anyone who was interested
I went along and I was like yeah this
wasn't aiming for I saw it the course
Natural Sciences was like perfect I was
like yeah I kind of confirmed that it
was definitely the place that was my top
choice for going to open days and stuff
like that why did you pick Jesus College
asks tavern sing I went on a summer
school in the summer before I applied it
wasn't at Jesus it was at Churchill
College but we went on a trip to Jesus
quiz to have a bit of a tour round it
when we were there and I really liked
with its one head like some of the older
like the old chapel and whatnot that I
really like because Churchill there's
more of a modern college so I wasn't so
keen on that I stayed there and yet the
course leader of the Sam school I was on
was also like the admissions tutor at
Jesus so I thought oh hey be a friendly
face at interviews at least so lidium
from that Elizabeth Hawley asks what
other colleges were you considering when
applying so on the open day I went
around a lot of colleges with my parents
I didn't really look around the labs and
stuff too much because I'd literally
just been on a summer school so I've
seen a lot of them then and I was
already I kind of knew the courses for
me I seen em facilities and was like
yeah yeah this is good so I kind of
dedicated the open date of really
deciding on what college I wants to
apply to
so I did the Quran a few my mom was a
big fan of Kings I think she really
likes the girl they showed us around
Kings never see Kings has got the
massive
like the famous chapel and whatnot so
did consider Kings ellipse around Sidney
Sussex which I also really liked it's
much smaller Sidney Sussex Jesus is one
of the bigger colleges
I also liked about Jesus that it was
kind of more not too far out this is
literally a five minute walk to
Sainsbury's from Jesus
whereas I mean if you're at Girton like
girl it's it's very far out what other
colleges I look around my god like the
open day was so long ago now I don't
even oh I look around Claire Claire was
before I'd been like when to visit it I
kind of seemed like the pictures from
Claire from the outside I was like oh I
want to go to Claire that looks like the
nicest one I don't know why I said this
obsession with Claire
and so I went to look around on the
every day of my parents and then I
decided against it
it was top choice but then I realized
that the accommodation for freshers at
least was like it's like quite a long
walk away from like the central part I
don't know yet to cross a bridge to go
over to the accommodation I was like no
I can't be doing with that so that
crossed Claire off the list but yeah I
mean I would recommend Jesus for anyone
choosing a college
but they're all lovely honestly I was
like around till the college is like I'd
be happy to be like any of these
colleges honestly ginger ginger 27 asks
what are your career plans after
university I literally have no idea I
don't even know what I will do next year
because next year I've got to kind of
specialize a bit more kind of choose
which science areas I like best and
first year because this year my degree
is very broad I do Natural Sciences I do
maths physics chemistry and earth
sciences next year I'll probably do just
one of chemistry and physics and then a
supporting subject but I literally have
no idea which one at the minute so I
need to figure that out you can either
do three years and get a bachelor's
degree do four years get a master's
we'll see how the next few years ago and
then we'll decide decisions I'm really
worried like my favorite is my page you
need to start kind of planning out your
life now you got to that age like I'm 19
now I need to figure out what I'm doing
I really like the idea of doing
astrophysics but I find physics so hard
so I don't know whether that's gonna be
a viable option or not I find chemistry
easier I love chemistry so chemists
something going into I don't know I
don't even know what kind of area that
I'd want to go into like I'm just stuck
we're stuck I need some like career
guidance or something we'll see we'll
see I'll update you on that when I know
what my plans are for the future
Asha Kumari asks what is the interview
process like at Jesus for physical
Natural Sciences I was really quite
nervous before I got there I remember
waiting in the bar before my interview
with all the other applicants and we
have our time slips and then five
minutes far-end if you would have to go
up to the student helpers and we'd be
like oh please so you got to take me to
the room that my interviews in they take
you there remember them taking me there
and then there was this chair outside my
interviewers office and
literally outside and this was December
so it was freezing cold I didn't have a
coat so sitting this cello freezing cold
so nervous for a good five minutes and
yeah then I got invited in check the
hands I just got asked problem questions
on maths physics and chemistry I had two
interviews both were about half an hour
long I didn't get asked anything about
my personal statement for physical
Natural Sciences and they'd literally
just keep pushing you if you if you
managed to grasp some some concept or
kant's of one thing right they'd just
throw another harder question at you so
yeah I got really stumped on of you it
was oh my god I'm so glad I'm never
gonna have to go through that again
well I suppose it's good preparation for
like job interviews in the future so
Phoebe says how did you think your
interviews went after you completed them
I thought my nephew's went so badly I
remember coming out and I wasn't I
wasn't disappointed to myself I was just
a bit like ah damn it I think I've blown
it I got back in the car with my dad and
he was like how'd that go and I was like
oh my god that was terrible
I got stomped and so many they asked me
questions I was like I don't know I
really don't know him and this is
particularly relevant now because I
still got in even after thinking what
interviews went so badly so if you have
had just had you interviews for this
application round literally relax over
the holidays even if you think you've
done really badly everyone thinks their
interviews went bad that's just the
nature of them so don't give up and yeah
good luck for when the offers come out
so the next question is from born to
love vintage and it is what methods of
revision defined most effective flash
cards look my questions I've written out
your Q&A question so I'm going to answer
or in flash guitars that illustrates my
love of flash cards more than anything
else there the thing I always have next
to me here are some examples of my a
level flashcards for physics and
chemistry and Sciences at GCSE physics
and chemistry at edible and I'm now
using flash car
again for my uni stuff so literally
throughout I live by flashcards they
have really quite detailed so you see
see will be um I really go into detail
on the back so this is one pack they
took quite a long time for me to make
but I found the making process really
useful as well and yeah I would make the
flashcard test myself from them like I
try and go through them do flashcards
every day and then I do a ton of past
papers after doing the flashcards and
yeah that's that's basically been my
revision process throughout my
educational career well they started at
GCSE flash cars became a thing I've
literally cleared out the Wilko stock of
flashcards so yeah Hetzel will go for
good flashcards they like only a pound
per pack and you get a little ring in
the corner like that let me show you
pack for the ring a little ring on the
key words here so I would highly
recommend flashcards and then I mean I
think that saying deep past papers but
yeah - cards flashcards the secret to
success or I mean they work well for me
Harry Potter lover asks what were your
GCSEs and did they make a difference
when applying to Cambridge so I got 8 a
stars two A's and one B at GCSE I mean I
think Cambridge did they do look at
GCSEs but if you have more or less than
that I really don't think that makes too
much of a difference I think what's more
important is your performance in the
first year of a levels and obviously
they have the admissions tests with look
at it's kind of just one part in
everything there are people who get in
with no way stars there are people who
get in with all a stars literally you
have the widest spectrum ever so I don't
do you obviously work hard for your
GCSEs
they are really really important but if
you have had a tough time at GCSE and
suddenly you're doing much better at a
level that's not there
the world either for GCSE I did which
they take
I took the core subjects plus history
drama French and triple science which
was when I found my love for science I
wasn't even going to take triple science
for GCSE it was only because my school
wouldn't let me do two languages that I
had to take triple science as an option
then I was like oh wait I actually love
science and here we are now doing
science at degree level so it all worked
out the best my collage stasiu ski says
is further maths required for physical
Natural Sciences it's about 50/50 as to
whether people have it or not I in like
from the people I've met it's the kind
of just I think it's not required if you
don't have it it's not a big issue
a lot of the maths that we've covered in
first term at Cambridge I've already
done in further maths a-level so I just
feel so grateful that I've had a bit of
a head start because I'm not the fastest
at picking things up so it's been
beneficial to me so yeah if you're
considering or animals to choose and
you're thinking maybe physical natural
sights as a Cambridge might be something
you'd want to do then yeah I'd recommend
taking further maths at the same time if
you haven't taken further maths and you
want to apply don't let it stop you I
mean during anibal's I remember thinking
to myself why the hell did I decide to
take for wearables I did maths chemistry
physics and further maths and I was like
why why would I want to take for why am
I taking for again what was the point of
this like you knees only require three
and now my first time at Cambridge I've
been like that's why I took four that is
why I took four cuz further maths has
been so helpful in first term and I mean
for physics as well I think further
maths a-level
has been more useful than physics a
little for my physics module so well
this is interesting so cats villain asks
do you have time to watch Netflix at all
during uni and in term time the answer
is No literally autumn I didn't watch
any Nets
at all and it's not like I don't watch
Netflix at home okay like over the
summer I've watched a ton of Netflix
since being back over the holidays I've
been watching a bit more Netflix off
those books set from there but during
term time I watched literally okay know
I watched the only TV I watched was one
episode of The Apprentice each week
apart from that nothing because you have
so much work to do and when you're not
working you're out socializing with
friends so there's not really tough I
mean having said that okay other people
at uni have somehow managed to get fruit
like whole TV seasons and series and
whatnot during term time I don't know
how they managed it cuz I literally had
no time to fit it in at all so if you're
a Netflix addict so you really want to
keep watching Netflix it's possible but
yeah I really don't know how you'd fit
it in but it's actually I'm actually
pleased that I don't want to be sitting
my sat in my room the whole time
watching Netflix it's nice to be getting
out meeting new people and socializing
instead and the work is fun as well so
I'm not complaining it's fine so Molly L
asks was the workload more than you were
expecting
no I'd say because I was expecting a lot
when I say to people and people ask me
I'm up and I'm like a Cambridge they're
like oh my god is that really hard and
I'm like well yeah it's hard work but
then all degrees are hard work people
work hard all you knees Cambridge at
Cambridge you just don't have a choice
to work hard
the Cambridge terms are so short that
they work you so hard during those terms
whereas at other unis you have longer
terms so you can afford to work less
hard throughout and still learn the same
am I suppose char is it the great asks
what is your style of note-taking during
lectures so for the lectures and all my
modules so far I've been given handouts
and they'll have like the base notes in
this kind of booklet that everyone picks
up on the way into the lecture different
lecturers have different styles some of
them
like indicate one you should like fill
in stuff and leave little gaps for you
to fill in and then you can annotate
anything else and the extra information
you want in there yourself or some
lecturers will just give you like a
pretty comprehensive list of notes and
they'll just talk at you
me personally I I like I always have a
highlighter at the ready to highlight
those key points and I love colored pens
I do find that I definitely always need
to have a pen in hand even if they give
me a comprehensive list of notes I do
like to make extra notes otherwise I
feel like I'm not engaging with the
lecture luckily some lectures are
recorded so if you don't catch all of it
first time around you can go online and
watch it there to learn a simple asks
what essential item did you forget to
take to Cambridge so I actually didn't
forget anything
surprisingly for me because I'm not the
most organized person
I will admit but uh I did not have an
iron with me and it wasn't that I forgot
it I just didn't think I'd need to bring
one I thought they'd supply one and I
did also message ahead to like the
freshers group chat on facebook like do
we need to bring iron iron supplied
somehow so I was like oh no of course
don't you bring it on of course I
supplied them in the laundry room and I
was like okay thanks okay that's great
that's fine because I like I love my
clothes nice and neatly pressed and then
I got that there was no iron and so I
went a good three weeks with no iron and
it was awful it was awful and yeah then
I did my parents came to visit in the
third week and they brought up with them
and ironed for me and a little mini
ironing board I could use which was good
that saved my life but having said that
my clothes have not been as neatly
pressed as they usually are at home well
open at uni and that's just because I
didn't have time to iron so Emma no
Louise asks are they good cooking
facilities in the kitchens so in the
Jesus College accommodation for first
years you get a kitchen between about 11
people you
surely it could be slightly more
slightly less but it's 11 people in my
case and you get two hops and a
microwave and a toaster and a kettle and
obviously a fridge you don't get a
freezer and you don't get an oven which
can be an issue for people who are
wanting to self cater a eating CAF most
of the time which is the Jesus College
cafeteria and they make more meals for
you and a lot of people do that but
having said that a lot of people do self
cater even first-years who only have a
couple of hopes to work with and a
microwave which can make life difficult
but things look up because in second and
third year and I don't know years beyond
that if you abstain for longer you move
into college owned houses and these
houses have which are literally on the
road next to the college they have
kitchens which have ovens in them so
your life has made much easier you can
cook properly but if you are wanting to
self cater then it's probably worth
looking at the different colleges and
seeing what self catering facilities
they have because it might be that other
colleges have ovens for first years
whereas Jesus doesn't my staircase
always smells nice because people are
cooking nice meals and I'm like mmm it
smells so good give me some so
plant-based
eater asks what is your typical day at
uni like 7:15 my alarm goes off I go why
and I hit snooze I eventually get up at
7:30 I you know do usual shower get
dressed brush my teeth whatnot and then
I get on my bike and cycle to the
chemistry department for my first
lecture starting at 9:00 first lecture
will be 9:00 till 10:00 10:00 to 11:00
I'll have a gap and I'll do some work in
that time and then 11 until 12
I'll have another lecture
at the earth sciences department and
then 12 to 1 I will have a science it's
practical other than cycle back to
college have some lunching CAF and then
I might do some work in the early
afternoon some of my supervision work
I've been set and then I'll probably
have an hour long supervision halfway
through the afternoon which will be at
Jesus College and then I'll come back
for my supervision I might have an hour
left getting a bit more work and then I
will go off to cath for dinner have a
nice chat friends then after dinner I
might have Boram a Latin dance class so
I'll cycle off to that go do a bit dance
then I'll come back in the evening I
might spend some time chatting relax a
bit get back to work I work sometimes
I've worked quite late in the library
and then I'll go to bed usually I'm
quite bad at getting to bed I usually
not in bed until like 11:30 or something
maybe later I try not to make it too
late but if I have what to do then I
like to get it done so Lois Leigh asks
what kind of topics have you covered in
Natural Sciences so far in my math
module we've done vectors complex
numbers probability differentiation
integration calculus in my chemistry
module we've done mass spectrometry
infrared spectroscopy atomic orbitals
and molecular orbitals in physics we
have done that was this whole like
starting bit at the start of term which
is a bit boring about like calculating
uncertainties and stuff like that we're
now onto dynamics and forces and we've
done a bit of oscillations as well
recently in physics and circuits and
then oscillations in circuits combining
and in ghost last module Oh earth
sciences good just rocks rocks we've
done a lot of rocks
but yeah it's good it's good it's fine
okay so that's it for this Q&A so thank
you for watching this video I hope it's
been helpful I hope you'll have a great
Christmas and yes you see bye